more than 65 percent of India's
population lives without indoor
sanitation heading into the night
barefoot to answer the call of nature is
the norm in rural areas and one of the
most common causes of snake encounters
using the figures from the new report
and his own decades of field experience
rom estimates that the Russell's Viper
could be responsible for half of all
fatalities many occur in circumstances
just like this
[Music]
okay let's have the main light on okay
it's such accidental interactions
between people and snakes that are at
the heart of the problem and ROM has
devised an experiment to analyse exactly
what's going on what we're doing here is
replicating what could be a very common
occurrence someone walking around at
night accidentally steps on the snake in
this case a Russell's Viper and gets
nailed but what's really special about
this is we've got a high-speed camera
which can shoot up to five thousand
frames per second showing a snake bite
like no one's ever seen it before
to make things as realistic as possible
we've got this artificial leg which is
actually very light much much lighter
than a real human leg so although it
looks pretty invasive we're not really
hurting the snake but we are definitely
threatening him with a human leg
[Music]
what we've got here is a series of
images of snake striking you know some
of us who have had experience with these
creatures feel that we know what they're
doing but it took this kind of a reveal
doing this kind of high-speed
photography slowing down the motion to
see exactly what's going on the
mechanics of a snake bite my impression
is that when you step on a Viper
he reacts immediately by giving you a
good strong tough bite but what we
actually found was that the majority of
times that our artificial foot actually
comes in contact with the Viper the
snake just wants to get away in fact
sometimes so dramatically sort of half
leap through the air and gets away
you